I know, is moving slowly but
it's also moving awesome.
So hopefully you're like,
okay, okay, I feel things.
I feel and I'm kind of excited.
So let's create a bunch of windows for
a quick more or let's create a bunch of,
let's see Han, oopsies,
create a bunch of sessions here.
I don't know why it says
create a bunch of windows,
I got confused cuz we're only
talking about sessions right now.
So what we're gonna do is we're gonna go
tmux, new-session with that little d.
And then I'm gonna do it a bunch of times,
right?
And now, we're gonna use this little
navigation tip right here, prefix w.
Now, prefix w will show you a kinda
list of all of your sessions in Windows.
Now notice that there's one window
per every single session, and
I can just walk through them.
Look at me, I'm going up and down.
This is pretty inconvenient form of
traveling through your windows and
sessions, but you could,
I'm going through them all.
Awesome, look at that,
I could go select this one,
I'm in a completely different one.
I am number 1.
And so after doing that,
I can do that little w, and
you can actually see right in here,
you can see command I not found.
That was the last command,
if I zoom it out a little bit,
you can see I am number 1
as the last command there.
Whereas this one shows all those ones,
you can kinda get a little preview
window of what's happening.
I'm really zoomed in for
everyone looking so
you don't get to have as
nearly as much viewing.
And so then these ones are all blank.
I can kind of walk through
all these different ones.
Awesome, I can see all
the different sessions, great.
Now, we can do a little killing
of each one of those servers,
remember Ctrl+D is end of file, prefix D
is tmux attached, very, very different.
So if I'm in here and I do Ctrl+D,
it obviously kicks me out of tmux.
If I just simply do prefix D,
it just backs out, and
let's say I'm attached the tmux.
If I just type in tmux detach,
it's the exact same thing as Ctrl+D.
So you can see, this is highly scriptable.
You could actually kick people out
of tmux sessions if you wanted to.
So let's do a little tmux kill server
again, if you followed along and
made a bunch of servers.
Let's clean everything up.
Let's start again, start again.
So, obviously it's very difficult still, I
haven't really talked a lot about windows
and panes, but it's kind of hard to see
the difference between all these sessions,
windows and panes.
And so even with that exploded view
where you could walk through each one,
you'd have to walk to each one and
then look at the input.
Not very convenient but
it is a way you could do it.
So let's start talking about the windows.
Obviously, that's kind of the next
thing we need to talk about.
So I already did this,
we already cleaned it up,
you can execute it again just to really
assert your domination over tmux here.
You will make it kill the server twice.
So let's create a new window.
So first let's do tmux, awesome.
We're exactly what we've done many,
many times here.
List session, you can see it,
one windows attached.
Now let's do this, tmux new window.
Now Enter, look at what happened.
Did anyone see what just happened there?
Hopefully what you saw is that all
the input on the screen went away.
But what you really should have
been looking at is right here.
Now notice what it says,
session zero has window 1 and window 2.
So now hopefully you're starting
to understand what windows are.
Now it's starting to kinda
make a little bit more sense.
Just like a server can have many sessions,
a session can have many windows,
it's the same principle effectively again.
I mean, they're effectively
identical to each other.
This operation tmux new-window is
identical to you pressing prefix c.
So let's do that right now.
I'm gonna go prefix c, prefix c, prefix c,
you can just see that number going up.
I'm on windows seven now at this point, I
have a bunch of different windows just by
pressing prefix c, or for
you likely Ctrl+B, C.
And that makes sense, prefix create is
how I kinda say it in my head, awesome.
Now if you wanna navigate around to these,
you have a couple of options.
You can do prefix p to walk backwards,
you can watch my little asterisk.
Now it's on 5,
it's gonna go to 4, 3, 2, 1, or
I can press prefix n for next.
So much like how you transfer sessions
using prefix open and closed parentheses,
whatever they're called, parentheses yeah,
you can use p and n to do it on windows.
Or what makes it a little bit easier,
let me zoom it out a little bit,
I can also just press the window number.
So prefix one will take me to window one.
Prefix two will take me to two,
prefix seven will take me all the way over
to seven, you can see my little
asterisk right there, there we go.
So now I'm jumping to the window I
want by just pressing its number.
Awesome and
when I press Ctrl+D to close it,
it happens a little differently this time.
Before when I press Ctrl+D,
it would not only kill my window
which would thus kill my session,
which would thus kick me out of tmux even
if there was other sessions to be had.
This one it will close the window but
it will go to my previous window so
I just pressed it, I killed seven,
I'm over here on two.
I call these things usefulness tips.
I didn't know really what to call it,
but a session should contain like items.
So if you have a project that
requires two terminal things running,
have your product, just have a session
with those two things in it.
This will become more clear as we
kind of extend to tmux further, but
you should really just try
to contain like things.
For a long time,
I'd have a single session and
I'd have it auto populate all my
projects the exact way I wanted them.
And though this was really useful,
I just found myself scrolling too much,
I didn't really like it as much.
I've kind of evolved since then and
went, okay,
I'm gonna find a better way
to navigate my sessions.
And thus all my projects can have
as many windows as they want, but
I will know exactly how to navigate them.
So sometimes you do want to ask this
question, who does number 2 work for?
It's a very important
question to be asked.
And you don't know, because you're
just looking at these windows,
none of them are making sense.
There's just a bunch
of numbers by them and
all the sessions this just have
a bunch of numbers by them.
So let's try something
a little bit different.
Let's go back here and go tmux.
Now I'm currently in the second window of
my first session, let me zoom back in.
I'm gonna go new session, now remember
we need to do dash d for detach.
Now I'm gonna go like this,
dash s and I'm gonna give it a name.
Let's give it the name, foo.
So now when I press Enter,
I created the session, detached.
Let's press prefix w
to look at everything,
here's our first session with six windows.
And then we have our second session,
it's named foo, it's not named one,
it's named foo as a single window.
Now when I open it, instead of saying
the number one right here, it says foo.
I can start naming my sessions,
this is really, really good.
And this is kinda where things
get a lot more exciting.
And you'll see why here shortly.
And so now they're a little bit
more meaningful, little bit easier.
And you can do the exact
same thing with windows.
I can go tmux new window, and
then I can give it a name, foofoo.
And now look,
window number 2 is named foofoo.
I can actually give them
the names that I want.
You can even create a tmux new session.
And you can also give the initial
name to the first window, so
that way you don't have something silly.
Let's call this one bar, there we go,
let's bring this back up.
And you'll notice that if we go to bar,
bar has one windows and
its windows' name is aoeuaoeu.
Which of course is the first
four characters of Dvorak.
By the way I used the Dvorak,
have I by the way that one yet?
All right, it's good to know,
got always by the way people.
So we're back here,
this is awesome, usability tip and
really this is not just a usability tip.
This is actually something
that's pretty exciting.
Let's jump back here and
go like this, new session.
Let's just re execute this,
duplicate session bar.
So hopefully, right away your little
programmer brain's going, okay, okay,
we can do something special
with session names.
They're like key values, I can now access
kind of a map of things that are running.
Very important to remember that,
put that up here for now.
So obviously sessions cannot have
the same name, very, very good.
There are pains, I don't like them,
I personally like to say pains or
pain in the ass.
I just am not a huge fan of them,
but I will say this much,
you can open them pretty easily.
Prefix percent sign will
split your window in half.
So look at what I just did here.
So I'm in window foofoo, but
I actually have two things running.
So I have already have this
setup inside my tmux RC
to do this is I can press prefix h,
prefix l to walk between these two,
vim command, vim movements, right there.
And so
I can actually walk between the splits.
And I can be over here and
I can walk over here and do this for
people that like that split lifestyle,
which I don't.
You can have it right here, me, not so
much for me, so if I press Ctrl+D,
it'll get rid of one of them.
I'm still in window foofoo.
I haven't changed at all,
I just had multiple splits there or panes.
So hopefully at this point,
this whole notion of server window pane
makes a lot more sense at this point,
because you saw that I had a single
window with multiple panes.
And panes really were the thing
that are running the shell.
This is two shell instances side
by side in a single window,
the window being what is
being displayed right here.
It is my terminal.
And then of course it lives
within the session foo,
which is one of many sessions.
I think at this point it's
probably a good idea to say, hey,
is there any questions kind of
about tmux in its basicness?
I just wanna make sure that we
don't have any confusion out there.
And ultimately, I think what is really
important is that, if you have a question,
somebody else has the same question.
They're just not willing to ask it, so,
ask it now and we can just get it over
with, and hopefully this little diagram I
have right here makes a lot of sense now.
When I first showed it to you,
probably made no sense.
Now you're like, okay, I get it, maybe
I don't remember all the keys I have to
press, I don't remember all
the commands I have to type in.
But I get the idea and
that's the ultimate goal here.
But now here's the question,
I gotta ask this question cuz
remember we want to solve problems,
I don't want to show you technology for
the mere sake that it's neat.
I'm not into neat technology,
I'm into useful technology.
And I wanna be really specific about that.
We got a question, William, what is it?
>> Two questions actually,
when would you ever use windows
in TeamHooks if you're using i3?
>> So that's a good question.
So I mean,
that's kinda the reason why I don't,
some people like things side by side.
And the reality, for
those that don't know when he said i3,
he's talking about the window manager.
So here let me close that,
I can actually just open up two
windows side by side right here.
And look at that,
they're kind of next to each other.
Personally, I don't use splits.
So I don't have a strong answer for
why you would ever want to use splits,
let alone why would you
use one over the other?
I personally would rather use
i3 to do a split than tmux.
But tmux also has a lot of really
great programmaticness to it that's
really simple.
And so I think you could probably do
cooler things with tmux with less
effort than you could with i3.
At least as far as my experience goes,
i3 is not as beginner friendly as tmux is.
Tmux is fairly beginner friendly, it has
a lot of easy pass, a lot of cool plugins,
that just kind of work.
Here's one of the things, never mind,
I don't wanna show quiet,
I almost got ahead of myself,
I get so just excited.
But yes, I virtually don't use splits for
anything.
My whole life has been driven around
trying to create navigation which I don't
need splits to begin with.
So I'm probably not the best person
honestly to ask that question,
I'm sure someone else would probably
have a much better answer than me,
why someone would or
would not want splits.
Cuz even when I'm copying code and
doing that, I don't still use splits.
I still hop between two windows really,
really fast.
So anyways, my question really, wait,
you had a second question, William.
What's the second question?
>> So the other question I had is
when you have named sessions or
windows, is there an easy way to
jump to it by name like a search?
>> I love that question,
and here's the answer.
Absolutely, and it's so
good that right after this,
we're gonna make some things in tmux
that are gonna be pretty awesome.
And so I wanted to first just kinda set
up that and I'm very happy you asked that
question cuz that's exactly
what you should be thinking.
You saw that you can't have
duplicate session names,
that should immediately
trigger in your head, okay,
there's some sort of programmatic
nature to this whole thing.